---
key: 001d8ea62325652db3927a42d6e03366
title: 'Insert title here'
---

## Title Slide

```yaml
type: TitleSlide
key: eeaf4991fd
```

`@lower_third`
name: Marcelo Guerra Hahn
title: Senior Manager, Engineering

`@script`


---

## The Question

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: 02408af03a
disable_transition: false
code_zoom: 100
```

`@part1`
Imagine that we have a data-set that contains data on Life Expectancy, Fertility Rates, and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) among other information. How would you determine if countries can be grouped based on this factors and what those groups look like?

`@script`
Let's take a look at another question, this one inspired by Hans Rosling Gapmider project.
Imagine that we have a data-set that contains data on Life Expectancy, Fertility Rates, and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) among other information. How would you determine if countries can be grouped based on this factors and what those groups look like?

`@citations`
[Gapminder](https://www.gapminder.org/)


---

## The Steps

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: d7e3e493ec
```

`@part1`
Step 1 - Figure out a plausible theory to solve the problem

Step 2 - Discuss your theory with the interviewer ask for feedback

Step 3 - Code your theory using R

`@script`
Remember in Lesson 1.1 we went through the steps to go through during interviews.

This question asks about grouping elements based on a set of variables, which hints as clustering as the answer, we should bring that up with the interviewer make sure the interviewer agrees with the approach, look at their reaction and feedback, and ask for clarification.

`@citations`
[Identify clustering problems](https://campus.datacamp.com/courses/unsupervised-learning-in-r/unsupervised-learning-in-r?ex=2)

---

## Clarifications

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: 053fb6ef5b
```

`@part1`
Assumptions:

1- We will only look at the year 2000

2- We will only use those three variables

3- We want to present the results in a way that is understandable by someone without a background in statistics

`@script`
Imagine that as part of the conversation and feedback process we obtain the following clues on the interviewer goals. Those assumptions that we can use are:
1- We will only look at the year 2000
2- We will only use those three variables
3- We want to present the results in a way that is understandable by someone without a background in statistics

---

## Data Prep

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: b615d6deba
```

`@part1`
```
> head(gapminder, 3)
  country year infant_mortality life_expectancy fertility population         gdp continent          region
1 Albania 1960            115.4           62.87      6.19    1636054          NA    Europe Southern Europe
2 Algeria 1960            148.2           47.50      7.65   11124892 13828152297    Africa Northern Africa
3  Angola 1960            208.0           35.98      7.32    5270844          NA    Africa   Middle Africa
```

`@script`
Now that we have established a possible solution and we clarified our assumptions it's time to start writing the solution.
The first step is going to be to prepare the data. For this we usually need to look at how it currently looks like using functions like str or head.
Let's take a look at the result of using head.
As you can see the data set has countries, years, life expectancy, fertility rate, gdp, and more, so all the variables we need are there plus some more. Also note the presence of NA values.

`@citations`
[Cleaning Data in R](https://www.datacamp.com/courses/cleaning-data-in-r)

---

## Selecting Rows

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: b05a3dfdd6
```

`@part1`
```
> data <- subset(gapminder, year=="2000")
> head(data, 1)
     country year infant_mortality life_expectancy fertility population        gdp continent          region
7401 Albania 2000             23.2            74.7      2.38    3121965 3686649387    Europe Southern Europe
```

`@script`
Now that we know what to need to do. It's finally time to show our knowledge of R.
As a first step we are going to subset the data so that we are only using the data from the year 2000.
For that I am using the subset function, but I also could have used the filter function, remember that in general there are multiple ways to solve the same problem, we are looking for one that works.
Remember that if any functionality that we are using seems new to you, you can refer to the citation which includes the DataCamp course where the functionality is explained in depth

`@citations`
[Accessing and subsetting data frames](https://campus.datacamp.com/courses/introduction-to-r-for-finance/data-frames-3?ex=9)

---

## Selecting Columns

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: f94a2c0cc3
```

`@part1`
```
> data <- data[c("life_expectancy", "fertility", "gdp")]
> head(data, 1)
     life_expectancy fertility        gdp
7401            74.7      2.38 3686649387
```

`@script`
Now it is time to select the columns from the data set, for that we will use the square brackets operator as shown in the slide. The idea is to keep the information that we need for the cluster algorithm.

`@citations`
[Selecting columns](https://campus.datacamp.com/courses/introduction-to-spark-in-r-using-sparklyr/light-my-fire-starting-to-use-spark-with-dplyr-syntax?ex=8)

---

## Omit NA and Scale

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: 2f179edf55
```

`@part1`
```
> data <- na.omit(data)
> scaled <- scale(data)
> head(scaled, 1)
     life_expectancy  fertility        gdp
7401       0.7207641 -0.4953341 -0.2024036
```

`@script`
Remember from the initial analysis of the data that there were missing values in it, to remove them we use the na.omit function. Also remember that for clustering to produce the best results the data should be scaled, for that we use the scale function.
Notice how the values change after scaling.

`@citations`
[Dealing with missing values](https://campus.datacamp.com/courses/cleaning-data-in-r/1828?ex=12)
[Preprocessing in Data Science (Part 1): Centering, Scaling, and KNN
](https://www.datacamp.com/community/tutorials/preprocessing-in-data-science-part-1-centering-scaling-and-knn)

---

## Clustering

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: a24015b5c4
```

`@part1`
```
> fit <- kmeans(scaled, 3)
> print(fit$centers)
  life_expectancy  fertility        gdp
1      -0.2913372  0.4611993 -0.1760777
2       0.6795696 -0.7105566  0.1398305
3      -1.6161680  1.5121252 -0.2007236
```

`@script`
Finally, it's time to perform the clustering. To do so we use the kmeans function. At this point, if time allows, it would be a good moment to show your overall understanding of clustering and explain why you picked this method over others.

`@citations`
[Introduction to K-means](https://campus.datacamp.com/courses/cluster-analysis-in-r/k-means-clustering?ex=1)

---



```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: 3be53ffd99
```

`@part1`


`@script`


---

## Let's practice!

```yaml
type: FinalSlide
key: a0ec2c746d
```

`@script`
